A **compressed particle**, or stacked particles, is a singularity created by forcing many particles to share the same physical location, causing them to become [entangled](/Entanglement.md "Entanglement"). They are made by turning off gravity, making a block of [Powder](/Powder.md "Powder"), pausing and dragging it off screen using the crosshairs (mac)/move(windows) tool. Unpause it, and a line of powder will shoot across the screen. After it has touched the other side of the screen, pause again, and drag it off screen in the opposite axis you just did (e.g. If you dragged it horizontally, drag it vertically now). A single **compressed particle** of powder should appear, and if you look at it in Blob or shader mode, it will be a huge circle.

Compressed particles are basically a bunch of particles squeezed into the space of one. Another name for them, *stacked particles*, refers to the fact that all of the particles within are overlaid and act as one object until they hit something. You can make compressed particles any element by simply using [Replace](/Replace.md "Replace") with your desired material selected.
They are also formed "naturally" (under default [Parameters](/Parameters.md "Parameters")) by [Tensile](/Tensile.md "Tensile") in globs that achieve a certain size, and have a single point in the center, surrounded by a dense symmetrical grouping of neighboring particles. However, the point density of these emergent c-particles is seen to be much less (at most 3 or 4) than those made by [Stacking](/Stacking.md "Stacking") or the [Powder](/Powder.md "Powder") block compression methods, which in theory could approach infinite density.

Uses:

Compressed (non-Rigid) particles make excellent "missiles" because they are small, but their explosive power is only limited by how many particles are in them.

They make good "mines", because they only explode when something touches them, or they touch something else.

Compressed particles made of Powder + Inflow can be a powerful explosive.

Rigid Compressed particles also are good for use in heavy projectiles, because they exert a huge force on anything they touch, and can be used in a device called a [Compressed Particle Gun](/Compressed%20Particle%20Gun.md "Compressed Particle Gun"), which uses a point-wide channel in [Wall](/Wall.md "Wall") to act as both a reflective well that keeps the solid C-Particle vibrating between the sides, and a loading mechanism where the high-frequency vibration slows the fall of the projectile, so it can properly press down at some certain angle (most often found by trial and error, and multiple modifications to the lower mechanisms) on a Rigid bar laying on top of another [Rigid](/Rigid.md "Rigid") piece (usually denser, or combined with [Axis](/Axis.md "Axis"))that stabilizes it, allowing the projectile an exit out of the gun.

It may be possible to generate compressed particles using different game mechanics. Theoretically if one could generate the forces and control needed to force two particles onto one another, simply wiping their inertia with Shift+; or perhaps wiping them with the Replace tool or Bucket tool may cause the particles to remain correlated.
