A **joint** is a physical connection between two particles.

Joints hold together bodies of [Elastic](/Elastic.md "Elastic") and [String](/String.md "String") and by extension [Brittle](/Brittle.md "Brittle") and [Rice](/Rice.md "Rice"). Joints can also attach these particles to Rigid and Wall, but not to other materials under normal circumstances. Joints between two non-Elastic or String particles likely do not exist.

Rigid and Wall do not use joints to maintain their shape. Rigid uses [rigid bodies](/Rigid%20body.md "Rigid body") and Wall particles are completely fixed in place.

## Formation

Elastic and string joints are formed via [N-Null](/N-Null.md "N-Null"). When a body of either material is placed, for the first step of its existence, it has N-Null in its recipe and is not joined to anything. One step later, the N-Null is removed, and the joints are formed. Other solid materials (Rigid, Wall, etc.) also contain N-Null upon being placed, so that they can bind to existing elastic bodies.

[Rice](/Rice.md "Rice") always contains N-Null, allowing it to form elastic bonds whenever it touches something it can bind to.

## Destruction

There are many ways that a joint can be destroyed.

[Heat](/Heater.md "Heater") will cause soft bodies to melt. If an Elastic or String particle touches a particle containing Heater, all joints connected to that particle are destroyed. While this applies to Rice, the joints are usually re-formed immediately.

In the case of Brittle and Rice, joints can be broken through excess forces.

If a particle is destroyed, all joints connected to that particle are destroyed as well.

## Types of joints

### String joints

String joints are very basic joints that only attempt to preserve a constant distance between two particles.

### Elastic joints

Unlike string joints, the joints between Elastic particles not only try to preserve distance but also relative position. This is why a body of Elastic will maintain its shape.

### Effect of Brittle on joints

Combining Elastic or String with [Brittle](/Brittle.md "Brittle") causes the joints between the particles to snap under too much force.

### Effect of Rice on joints

Combining Elastic or String with [Rice](/Rice.md "Rice") causes the joints between particles to become extremely weak, but it also allows them to reform on contact.

A particle containing K will bind to a particle containing E.

## Joined Joints

It appears to be possible through [save file manipulation](/.oec%20File%20Manipulation.md ".oec File Manipulation") to link a particle to a join directly. This produces highly unusual behavior but doesn't crash the game. Potential applications of joining joins have yet to be determined.

Simply set the first target particle in the join to be a particle, then the second target particle to be a join. Currently only joining a particle to a \*distinct\* join has been tested, there are many permutations involving joins being joined to other joins, or themselves. Since Wall and Rigid are not deformable, they can be used to constrain the extreme and unusual forces generated by such a configuration.

The state is stable as long as no particles are added or removed from the simulation. This makes joined joints utterly, completely, and totally incompatible with Inflow and Outflow, since they change particle count, and thus the line number of a given joint.
