This is a *theoretical page* regarding the function and construction of a **Sonic Black Hole** in OE-Cake. I have not yet attempted to build such a structure but I don't think it would be impossible either, given the constraints of the game.

  

### Theory

What happens to things that fall inside of a black hole is a yet-unanswered question in physics. We don't even have that many tools to predict what kind of behavior there will even be. One such tool that physicists have turned to is the "sonic black hole" where phonons (motion in baryonic matter responsible for making sounds, that is analogous to photons) in fluids are used to simulate how light behaves once it passes the event horizon of a black hole. Basically a sonic black hole is a whirlpool of Water with a boundary area where particles are moving faster than the speed of sound, with an inner and outer section where the speed of sound is normal. The idea is that if you set off an explosion or otherwise cause a vibration outside of the boundary horizon, it will not be possible for the vibration to move fast enough for it to exit the other side of the zone. These vibrations of sound in the moving fluid are quite comparable to the electromagnetic vibrations that make up light and it is possible to use the results from sonic black holes to predict how real black holes behave.

### Setup

This device will likely require the *StaticPressure* [Parameters](/Parameters.md "Parameters") to be enabled and *dampingCoefficient* to be disabled. Generating physically accurate fluid flow is not easy in OE-Cake, but not impossible either. It is likely that [Anti-Viscous](/Viscous.md "Viscous") will be useful to facilitate accurate flow, perhaps carefully balancing anti-viscous with a negative *resistanceCoefficient* can modulate particle vorticity at different speeds. Setting *resistanceCoefficient* to a negative number adds energy to the simulation by reducing particle's tendency to slow down after impacts, helping nullify the [quantum friction](/Quantum%20Physics.md "Quantum Physics") of fluids in OE-Cake. Careful balance of fluid pressure and velocity with the rate of simulation will be needed, and this will be a loooong one. This is one of those simulations that is probably best run with a low *maxSpeed* but extended runtime to provide suitable control of momentum. This simulation will depend on extremely careful monitoring of phonons, the smallest unit of material motion OE-Cake can natively simulate. There will likely need to be Inflow somewhere, and a small dot of centralized Outflow to facilitate the whirlpool, though it may be possible to make a device with no net flow. This could be an excellent opportunity to take advantage of a self-flowing system where the input energy to the fluid equals the internal losses, it is possible to create such a material using Anti-Viscous or negative *resistanceCoefficient*. Carefully tuning the values can create a system in motion but constant equilibrium. Figuring out how to profile the waveform of this structure around the speed of sound will be the solution. Perhaps a lattice of [Sparse Elastic](/Sparse%20Elastic.md "Sparse Elastic") with variable density inside a whirlpool of Anti-Viscous...
